incredibly 80% of all insects live in
jungles few are more successful than the
ants there can be 8 million individuals
in a single hectare but jungle ants
don't have it all their own way
these bullet ants are showing some
worrying symptoms spores from a
parasitic fungus called cordyceps have
infiltrated their bodies and their minds
[Music]
it's infected brain directs this ant
upwards then utterly disorientated it
grips a stem with its mandibles those
afflicted that are discovered by the
workers are quickly taken away and
dumped far away from the colony
[Music]
it seems extreme but this is the reason
why like something out of science
fiction the fruiting body of the
cordyceps erupts from the ants head
[Music]
they can take three weeks to grow and
when finished the deadly spores will
burst from its tip then any ant in the
vicinity will be in serious risk of
death
the fungus is so virulent it can wipe
out whole colonies of ants and it's not
just ants that fall victim to this
killer
there are literally thousands of
different types of cordyceps fungi and
remarkably each specializes on just one
species
[Music]
but these attacks do have a positive
effect on the jungles diversity since
parasites like these stop any one group
of animal getting the upper hand the
more numerous a species becomes the more
likely it will be attacked by its
nemesis a cordis EPS fungus